VEN needs to orchestrate and balance import, export, production, consumption (and part of those storage and recall) electrical energy. It needs to be able to calculate its current and to some extent it future price, co2 and comfort value. It needs to optimize for those in configured priorities. For that, it needs to arrange and order consumption and production. There are several hard and soft boundries like physical constant, calculable or probable ranges of consumers and producers, due times, controllable power sizes, controllable time step sizes and tiers. Not only should a VEN optimize for the above quantities, it should also provide flexibility options for VEN so that VTN can orchestrate VENs. A VEN needs to be prepared and adjust for sudden changes.


# Flexibility / Leeway

## User Flexibility

- Implicit Choice => Asset with repeating EnergyPacket: e.g. Cooking. Implicit, plan with heuristics

- As soon as possible => Price, CO2, EndTime, No VTN Flexibility

- As soon as possible for free => EndTime

- By EndTime for free => OK,

- By EndTime => Price, CO2

- For max this Price, CO2 => EndTime

## VTN Flexibility

- Export Flexibility based on SoC and PowerRange, conflicting with Planning (solve by Price, CO2 or ComfortValue)

- Export Flexibility: PowerExport cropping

- Import Flexibility based on Planning (solve by Price, CO2 or ComfortValue)


## Conflicts

conflicts should be solved according to priority and/or comfort value. Not sure yet how to resolve this.  
About VTN override events. Again, that depends on their value. Emergencies would cause penalties which have high value so that value would cause immediate change, maybe creating a new EnergySnapshot Instance in the Array. 
I am not clear yet, how many EnergySnapshots should be created, only corner points or sampling points like every 5 minutes, etc.

Again about conflict and priorities: I was hoping, everything might be solvable via comfort value: e.g. an emergency event is basically not compulsory, it is a matter of accepting consequences if not followed. consequences can mostly be expressed in fines, which ultimately means comfort money - if my comfort is worth more than the fine, I might just choose the fine. but of course the regular case is to follow the emergency event. So I think, the user can express priorities, where energy is free (generated by users PV or stored in its battery) and whenever free energy is not available, every EnergyPacket has a value to the user that she is willing to pay for (I call it comfort value). however, it isn't clear to me yet, how to express value for timing (e.g. "the EnergyPacket/'energy consuming task' should be done by tonight 19:00 for max €1, else do it until next Friday 18:00". Or "Just let me cook my meals as usual but warn me if it would cost more than €2". If there are clashes with requests, priorities either put them in sequence or in partially in parallel if the dosage adjustability is possible.

Does that make sense and is it possible to implement?

Do you have solution suggestions?




# TODO:
maybe rename EnergyPacket to EnergyTask - then again, NO. Task tends to imply one direction, like only energy usage and wouldnt fit for energy generation.